>> My name is Steve Lewallen and this is
session 309, Getting Started With Xray.
I'm the Performance Tools Manager within Development
Technologies at Apple and I'm here to talk about Xray.
So on today's agenda we're going to define
for you what Xray is and w'ere also going
to briefly cover a technology you will
probably hear often hand in hand with Xray
around here at the conference and that's DTrace.
Then we're going to highlight the key elements
of Xray that you need to understand how to use
in order to make basic use of Xray itself.
And finally we're going to have three demos.
The first demo that I'm going to
give is just a general usage demo.
We want to familiarize you all with the different parts of
Xray and how you use them, what a work flow is within Xray.
The second demo is more about solving an
interesting problem and integration with Xcode.
We'll also used an advanced feature
of Xray called the UI recorder.
And finally we're going to have a talk on memory analysis
and demonstrate our memory analysis tools in Xray.
So what is Xray?
I like to call Xray a meta analysis tool.
Most performance tools you have are focused
on one particular metric or genre of data
such as memory allocations or how much
time you code is spending in one function.
But Xray can do all of these things within one unifying
interface and part of this unifying interface theme has been
to bring in some of our older legacy tools.
Over the years, we've developed many different tools.
They come from different paths in the company and different
history's and they have different UIs that you need
to learn and we need to upgrading them and some of
them have started to kind of really lack the polish.
Certainly not looking like a Leopard app.
So we've built a great UI in Xray, polished it and
are supporting all of these tools within Xray itself.
And of course I mentioned that we
include support for DTrace as well.
And finally, Xray is exclusively available on Leopard.
It will not run in Tiger.
So why is Xray so great?
Well those disparate types of data I
talked about, you can look at any one
of those Xray can measure many different types,
but you can also view them simultaneously over time
and you can use time as one way to correlate data together.
Now instead of saying well, my app uses so much memory
around here, you can say my app spikes in memory
between the time I open this file and close it
and now I have another context with
which to look at that memory spike.
It also provides the ability to mine the data you gather.
We have various tools to flip the data around,
upside down, inside out, scope it down,
to find your particular problem
you're interested in looking at.
Xray also streamlines the edit, build, analysis cycle
and we'll take a look at that in demo number two.
And finally Xray simplifies the use of DTrace itself.
So what is DTrace?
Well, this is a quote actually from Sun's DTrace manual,
updated slightly to fit our needs here.
Sun did a great job, very innovative technology in the
last few years in Solaris and they open sourced it.
We said well that's great technology, we want to use it
at Apple and so a bunch of people at Apple from people
in the kernel team to the performance team, all over Apple,
worked their butts off to port this to Leopard in a year,
both for Intel and PowerPC and that wasn't
an easy job, but they did a great job at it.
Now, it's a dynamic tracing facility that allows you to
trace any instruction on the system from the kernel on up
and concisely answer any arbitrary question you may have
about the system and the behavior of your app and ours.
So why is DTrace so great?
What attracted us to DTrace?
Well one of the great things is zero disabled cost.
Now I was actually sitting in the room during
the OpenGL talk and they said something
that I've said often about why DTrace is great.
They were talking about an error API that they put in their
programs and often times developers accidentally leave
that in and that slows down the
performance of their OpenGL apps.
Well this is a reason why DTrace is
great, because it has zero disabled cost.
Instead of specifically putting in a code that gives you
error reporting and performance metrics in you own code,
you can use DTrace to dynamically
attach probes, gather some information,
when you're done pull them out
and it doesn't effect you app.
You can do that with apps that are
in production and already shipped.
You don't need to recompile it to turn this on and off.
So it's dynamic and it's system wide from the kernel on up.
We have a technology now that bridges the gap.
It used to be that there's the kernel
developers and they have their debugging tools
and then there's the user developers and there was
this gap and DTrace bridges that gap for all of us.
Now a user, a user app developer can actually see what's
going on from the kernel on up in his application.
That's really phenomenal.
So again, it's always available as well.
We ship DTrace in Leopard on the user install,
on the developer install and on the server.
You don't need to install anything
to use DTrace itself in Leopard.
And finally, it's scriptable.
So we call technologies that we use in Xray to
gather different pieces of data instrumentation.
So what types of instrumentation does Xray have?
Well it has all this technology built on the Darwin
Foundation and most of it built on Leopard frameworks.
Such as for, example, object allocation and leak
instruments, general memory usage instruments.
It has instruments to measure where you're
spending your time in your app a.k.a. sampler
or if your app is spinning, what's
going on when it's spinning.
Is it deadlocked?
Is it just taking a long time with the event loop?
Then we have some new innovative instruments one
of which is the UI recorder which will allow you
to record the user events that are
being sent to your application.
You can use this in a couple of ways.
One, you can say well, is my app actually
responding to the events it should be responding to?
But two, we can flip the coin here
and play those events back
and automate you driving your own app
and we'll take a look at that in demo.
We have another app called the OpenGL Profiler
and this will help you determine how
efficiently you're using GL on the system.
Then of course as I said, we have DTrace also
and we've built several instruments around DTrace
such as file activity instruments,
garbage collection instruments
and finally you can build your
own DTrace instruments in Xray.
So what are the key elements that you need
to understand to make best use of Xray?
Well first and foremost is the instrument itself.
This is the key piece of technology that gathers data on
a particular metric such as memory usage, I/O, etcetera.
So where do you get an instrument in Xray?
Well you get it out of the instrument library.
The instrument library hosts all of
the instruments that we include in Xray
and if you build any instruments yourself,
that's where they will appear as well.
Once you have an instrument out of
the library, what do you do with it?
You apply it to the trace document.
This is where all the instruments that you've selected to
measure against your particular target app will appear,
as well as all the data that they gather and this is
where you will spend you time mining
the data and finding your problem.
Now once you've applied an instrument to the trace
document, it has certain default settings usually
and we've tried our very best to
pick good, solid default settings.
But if you want to tinker with that and change
them, you use the inspector on the instrument.
And finally, where else can you get instruments?
Well you also can get instruments from Xray trace templates.
These are collections of instruments that we've
put together to look at particular problems
and you can build trace templates yourself as well.
And you can set these templates onto
problems from Xray itself, from Xcode,
from what we call "quick start" keys
and from the command line.
Now one caveat here or something
to mention is that as I said,
we're trying to unify some of our
smaller tools into Xray itself.
Well a couple of tools you may have used, Sampler.app
and ObjectAlloc.app are no more and in their place,
in the performance tools folder, are Xray
templates that look pretty similar to those apps
with a little template, cool template icon on them.
So don't be surprised when you click on those
that Xray actually opens instead and
you can use those with great effect.
They have even more power than the apps themselves.
So let's go to demos.
Let me give you a general usage demo.
I want to show you how you use Xray and we're not going to
solve a real problem, we're just going to kind of play around
and find some issues and show Xray itself.
So I have Xray on my dock here, it's
normally in developer applications.
I'm going to click it and up pops Xray and on the front
of it is the Xray template we just saw on the slides.
Now for the purposes of this demo, I'm actually going to
choose the least exciting template, the blank template,
because I want to show you how to use the library as well.
So I have the blank template selected and I'll click choose.
Now we have an empty trace document
and where do I get the instruments?
Again I get them from the library.
So I'll go up to the upper right in the tool bar and
click on my library button and my library appears.
Now these are all of the instruments that we
actually include with Xray out of the box.
And I can find different things, I can search in
the library, I can say what has to do with memory?
Well there's a bunch of instruments that
have to do with memory, oh how about file?
There's a bunch of instruments that have to do with file.
It will search all the key words
in the instrument to get these hits.
I can also search by category.
So I'm going to go to the top of the library and drag
down the splitter here and expand the library node
and these are all the different categories
of instruments that we actually have
and I am actually interested in
this category, the system category.
Because I'm going to do this first
demo with a sampler instrument.
So to apply an instrument to a trace
document, I select it and drag it
out of the library and drop it onto the document itself.
Now I've applied the sampler instrument to the
document and I'm going to go and close the library.
Now the next thing I want to do is I want to change the sampling
rate of sampler from ten milliseconds to five milliseconds.
So I'm going to go and click on the small I here on the
right of the instrument and that brings up the inspector.
So I'm going to change this from ten to five and now I'm done.
Okay. So now we have an instrument, we're all ready
with that, now we need to actually pick something
to gather data on, to run this sampler against.
So I'm going to go up to launch executable and I
could attach to a running process for example
but I want to actually choose an executable.
So I'm going to select that and my chooser
comes up and I'm just going to pick chess.
Just so we can play around with that a little bit.
Before I exit this dialog, I want to point out that if you
have a special setting that you like your application,
your target to run with, you can set environment
settings in this box as well as command line arguments
and those will be remembered for that executable
as long as you don't go back and change them.
So I'll select open now on chess
and we've selected our target
Now I'm actually ready to run the trace, using
the sampler instrument against my chess target.
So let me do that now.
I'm going to use the upper left hand button
here, record and I'm going to press that.
Xray is going to launch chess and start
running the sampler instrument against it
and let me just chess through it's paces again.
We're just doing a little usage demo here.
Okay that's good, I'll quit.
Okay so what do we see?
Well a lot of things have changed in Xray now, so
let's work from the top down and discuss each of those.
So center top is the time display.
This is actually showing me the running time of my recording
and chess was in the foreground but it was ticking away
as the trace was going and data was being
populated and as we performed the trace.
So we ran for twelve seconds.
Now let's move down a level and we see that
there's track data next to the sampler instrument.
This is CPU usage data basically, spikes and
different instruments will put different kinds
of graphical representations and
graphs in these track views.
Next down in my detail view.
Now we saw that automatically disclose
as soon as we started the trace.
This actually contains the meat of my data.
The track view is more of a high level navigation tool.
So I want go dig into this a bit.
I want to answer what is happening in this
first spike here when the chess app starts up.
So I'm going to use a few techniques to narrow that down.
So the first thing I want to do is I
want to focus in on just the main thread.
That's what I'm interested in, just
what happened on the main thread.
So I'm going to go to the lower left hand corner and
under active thread, I'm going to select main thread.
Now we see in the detail view that all the threads other
than the main thread have been
eliminated from the sampling data.
The next thing I like to do is invert the call tree.
Because that gives me the interesting
leaf nodes of the sample.
So I'm going to go about two thirds of the way
down to this invert call tree check box here
under the call tree options and I'm going to select that.
Now I've inverted the call tree and I want to eliminate
anything that's not Objective-C. So I'm going to go
down a few check boxes and select show Objective-C only.
Okay, well here we are.
We've filtered this down some, flipped
it over, now I want to focus in on just
that one range of time in the track view up above.
So what I can do is I can filter on time
by click and dragging in the track view.
So if I hold down my option key on the keyboard and then I
click and drag my mouse, I'll actually open a small region
of time here and we saw the detail view filter
down a bit and that's because it's filtered
out everything that's not in that time range.
There's also some interesting ways to create
that time filter that we won't go into today.
So on the top I see the view hierarchy
lock, lock for writing.
Well what's going on?
Why is that one of the hot points in
the beginning here when we loaded chess?
Well I'm going to look at another view in Xray
called the extended detail view and often times,
the extended detail view is loaded with stack data.
So I'm going to go to the upper right tool bar item
again, this time using the view menu and we see
that the detail menu is already disclosed
and I'll now select the extended detail view
and out slides the stack trace and I can see, I can also
invert this, reverse the order of the stack and I can see
that lock for writing is being called well
basically because we're loading bundles,
we're loading the nibs and that makes perfect sense.
All the UIs coming into the app and so things are
being locked and unlocked as all that's being built up.
So that makes perfect sense.
So that is actually the conclusion of this demo.
Just to show you around how you actually run Xray.
Now let's go back to the slides and we'll
review the steps that we took to do that.
So, step one was we had to choose a template
and in this case we chose the most boring one
of the templates to show you the library.
So step two was to pick and instrument, in this case sampler
out of the library and apply it to the trace document.
Then we configured the instrument
and we chose our target, chess.
And step four we actually started the recording,
Xray launched chess for us, we gathered the data,
we stopped the trace and then we used
our various tools within Xray to narrow
down onto the issue we were interested
in which is start up time.
So now let's go to a more interesting demo, now that
we're are more familiar with how we basically use Xray.
So here's the scenario for the demo.
You are an engineer at a large biotech company and they
have these DNA records, they have millions of DNA records
and they had someone write an app that
would sort these DNA records and the person
who wrote those did a simple string comparison type of sort
to sort the data and you thought you could do a better job.
So let's go back to demo machine one again
and let me start that and I'm going to run it.
Okay, so this is our simple app and on
the left hand side are unsorted records.
For this example data set, we just have a 100,000
and on the right should be our sorted records.
So when you've got the app, you perform the
default string sort and it took two thirds
of a second or so, so then you added your UID Sort.
You thought that if you just added a unique identifier
to each DNA record, it would be a lot faster.
So you just had this idea and you just
implemented it and let's see where you got.
Well you didn't do so well and
actually, this isn't totally uncommon.
Often times we get an idea of how to solve our
performance issue without really digging into it a lot
and we may have a sound concept overall, but something
about the execution of that actually didn't result
in the performance win that we had hoped.
So you think yourself wow okay, I thought this
was going to be easy, this is going to be a lot tougher.
So how do I improve this, I'm going to
have to iterate over time probably.
I don't want to have to go and drive this app every time and
regather the performance data myself, I'm going to use Xray
and Xcode together tell me automate all of this.
So let's go back to the demo app and quit it and
let's go up to Xcode's run menu and take a look
at what's under, start with performance tool.
Now in start with performance tool,
we have a bunch of templates here.
These are all the same templates
we saw in the template chooser
and in fact any new templates you
see here, you'll see in the chooser.
So I'm going to select this template
at the bottom, UI recorder.
I'll select that and let's see what happens.
Well Xray starts up and it starts up our demo app.
Now I'm going to go through the same thing
I did before and do this UID sort that's
so slow and now I'll go and quit my demo app.
So what happened there?
Well the UI recorder instrument recorded
all of the user gestures that I sent
to my target app and it can replay those for me.
So I'm going to use that feature and I'm going to combine
it with that sampler instrument we saw before.
So let me go back to my library and let's look
for sampler instrument again, there it is,
I'll drop it on the trace document
again, I'll close my library.
Now I'm going to save this with these two instruments,
along with the UI recording data which we call
in this mode the driver data, as an Xray template.
So I'm going to go to the Xray file
menu and say save as template.
And I'm going to type in sort test and I'll just say
automated sort test of DNA app and I'll hit save.
Now I'm going to close Xray completely.
I don't want to save it as a document itself.
Now let's go back and look at that
performance tools menu again in Xcode.
Start with performance tools, now
we see a new template, sort test.
So what happens if I select sort test now?
I'll do that and Xray is going to start up.
It's going to start the demo app, then
it's going to drive the target app for me.
So it's going to perform the first
test and then the second test
which took longer and then it's going to go and quit the app.
So that's a nice little automation.
( applause )
So what's really cool, one of the first people that saw
this was someone who works with game developers a lot
and they described to me and said wow you
know, often times these game developers,
they get this bug report that says
like it's Quake or something.
Well I went down this hallway, I turned left, I shot that
guy, I turned right, I shot this other guy, etcetera,
etcetera and that's difficult for them to reproduce.
Often times they hack into their code just
so they can get to that point in the game
and so this is neat to automate all sorts of applications.
So now let's look at the data it actually collected.
So this first large blip here, this was the amount of time
it took to do string sort and this rather bigger blip here,
that was the time it took to do what was supposed
to be the faster sorting routine, the UID sort.
So let's use the same techniques that we learned in
the previous demo to find out what the problem is.
Okay so the first thing I do is select authorize
and in this case this is a single threaded
app so it doesn't have a lot of affect.
I'll go now and invert the call tree as we did
before and I'll say show Objective-C only.
So at the top here is RSRecordcalculateUID, so let's
disclose our extended detail view to see the call stack.
I'll go back to view menu at the
top and say extended detail.
And now we can see that at the top is RSrecordcalculateUID
and we can see by the subtext below there,
all the frames that have source code to them.
So let's click on a calculate UID, double
click on it and bring it up in Xcode.
So I look at this and I say, well
you know, this is pretty efficient,
I don't think I can really optimize calculate UID.
So let's close that and let's go down a frame.
What about the UID method itself?
Okay well this is passing back a number with the
calculated UID, but how is all this being used?
Well if you look in the next few frames,
we'll see that an array is being sorted,
there is a comparison function called UID compare and
that is getting the UID, which computes the UID itself
for both left and right and the comparison.
So that could be a lot of comparisons and a lot of
computations of the UID and that doesn't change.
I mean a DNA strand remains the same the entire time.
So what I'm going to do is go back
to the way we provide the UID.
Let's go back to that frame and I am going to replace
this with a new method that actually caches the UID.
So I'll go and delete this now and I will drag in
the new method, save that and then I go to my header
and add the data member there, save that,
close, close and build and now I'm going
to use another cool feature of Xcode
which basically is restart.
Xcode always knows the last way you ran your app and
if you notice, Xray is also running in the background.
It still has that other template that we have
the previous data with before we made our fix.
So I'm going to go back to the run menu,
now I can just say go sort test.
I don't even need to find the template anymore.
So say go sort test and Xray is going to start up and start
the demo app again and put it through it's paces once again.
That took about the same amount of time.
This takes a lot less time.
Now the UI recorder says I've gotta wait around
here, this took awhile so it's going to hang out there
for a second and now it's going to quit the app again.
So now we have performance win here.
Now let's compare before and after by using yet
another feature of Xray called runs, multiple runs.
So let's go back to Xray and click on the instrument.
Move this detail down, click on the
inspector and say show all runs and hit done.
And now what we can see is the
bottom graph is what was before.
This is what took so long.
The upper graph is what was improved.
So let's review this really quickly in slides.
So back to the slides.
So the first step was to generate a UI recording and
then we can store that away and use it whenever we want.
So we used Xcode to launch the UI recorder template
against the current executable in our Xcode project.
We manipulated our app to teach Xray how to do it
itself and then we added the sampler instrument
so that whenever we ran, we gather actual performance data.
We save it as a template and then
we played it back from Xcode seeing
that our new template was there in the performance menu.
We identified our hot spot and we corrected
the performance issue by caching the UID away.
And then we restarted from Xcode using the
restart function and verified our performance win.
Now I sensed that you thought we had
failed there cause it was still longer.
So actually, we improved the performance some using
one of our instruments but we can improve it more.
So I'm going to invite Daniel Delwood, engineer on the
Xray team, who is going to talk about memory analysis
and see what he can do to meet our goal of beating the
string sort by taking the angle of memory analysis.
So Daniel.
>> Thanks Steve.
>> Take it away.
( applause )
>> Well howdy.
I'm Daniel Delwood, Software Radiologist and I'm here
to talk to you today about memory analysis and Xray.
So first of all, if you remember one thing I say today,
remember that memory is critical to performance, okay.
If you remember two things, remember
that Xray can help with that.
So without further adieu, let me jump right
into what memory analysis tools Xray brings
to the table and sort of introduce you to them.
So first of all, there's ObjectAlloc.
Now this is an instrument that tracks
all the malloc calls and the free calls
and a target application and records all that data.
Now it is a lot of data, but that gives you a
lot of power because later on you can go back
and get detailed address histories
for virtually any pointer.
It used to be a stand alone application and we've
since improved it by speeding it up and adding features
and including it in Xray and I'll talk about
this a little bit later before the demo.
Next is leaks.
This is a tool that checks for
unreferenced blocks of memory.
If you've allocated a block and since lost all references
to it, you obviously can't deallocate it and it's a leak
and it returns that and it also tells you the
allocation point at which the block you know, is created.
So that's another really powerful tool.
The memory usage monitor is a slightly different tool.
It's very, very useful because it records high level
statistics such as virtual size, resident size,
the number of page faults, number of copy on write faults
that your target application makes
and graphs them over time.
So the good part about his is you can visually look at your
data and say, okay when did my memory usage start to spike?
Was it because I clicked a button?
Was it very slow over time?
Memory usage monitor will help you find that.
And lastly I just wanted to mention that DTrace,
which Steve talked about earlier, is a very,
very powerful technology for you
as the application developer
to use the knowledge you have to solve your memory problems.
Because you know the most about your code, you can
ask specific questions, probe specific functions
and find out well why is your memory
spiking, why is it not being used well?
So what are some, what's the benefit
of these all being together?
Well you can use them all at the same time in Xray.
All in the same document.
So what are some common memory issues?
Well leaked memory like I said, you can use the leaks
plug in or the leaks instrument along with ObjectAlloc
to get more detailed histories for those leaked blocks.
If you're facing large footprints, you can use the
memory usage monitor to find out was it a slow,
gradual growth over time possibly due to leaks
or was it something that you did suddenly?
If you're facing pointers to freed
memory, getting exec bad access,
I'd use ObjectAlloc, leagues,
DTrace and really search this.
And then dynamic memory usage is a little
bit less known of a memory problem.
This is when you allocate an object or just a block and
then you free it and then you allocate and free and allocate
and free and do this a hundred thousand times.
It's a really big performance problem and
it's something you just don't need to do.
You can create an object and use it for
the whole lifetime or just create a buffer
and so that's what dynamic memory usage is about
and you can use ObjectAlloc to help track that down.
And also, if you're tracking down memory
fragmentation, this is a very, very hard problem to track
and if you use all these instruments together, you can
actually get a handle on it and it's really amazing.
So I just wanted to mention that as well.
There's a little bit more in ObjectAlloc
before we go to a demo of it.
It's not just for objects, it's sort of a misnomer there,
but it tracks all of the malloc calls, all of the free calls
and if you want, all the retain/release/autorelease
events too.
This allows you to really get that detailed information.
You can get statistics on what type
of objects were getting created.
Was it just those three really, really big buffer
allocations that are using up your memory and you forgot
to get rid of them or what it the hundred thousand
NS strings that you accidentally left around?
You can find out that information as well as
view these as call trees to find out what point
in your code was responsible for those allocations.
Also, you can get pointer histories by using
all these events and giving it a pointer,
you can find out okay, what was
the life cycle of my objects.
That's what ObjectAlloc is all
about, it's a memory life cycle tool.
And finally, it does work with garbage collected apps.
The only difference between a garbage collected app and
a normal application when viewing it with ObjectAlloc,
is that you don't actually contain, or you
don't actually control when the frees occur.
So under a garbage collected app, the free is due to the
garbage collector cleaning up after you and any other blocks
that you allocate manually, you'll
definitely want to watch as well.
One last note on leaks before we go ahead and demo is that
it does a static memory analysis of your target application
which is really, really accurate except that
it's not for garbage collected environments.
This is something I just wanted to mention
since garbage collected environments
and Objective-C 2.0 world are a big thing.
What it does is it looks for all the malloc'd regions
in your target application and searches through them
and tries to find all the blocks that are referenced and
anything it can't find as referenced, it returns as leaked
and that's how you can really track
down those memory problems.
It was a command line tool only and now we are both
including the command line tool and the leaks instrument
and it works alongside ObjectAlloc to give you those
really detailed histories for your leaked blocks.
So anyway, we move on to a demo.
Steve showed us the DNA sorting demo
and we didn't quite reach our goal.
Our goal was to be faster than the alpha numeric case and
sensitive string compare there and we just didn't get there.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to show you some of
the memory analysis tools in Xray and we're going to look
at just the memory usage with really no concern of
performance and at the end we'll go back and say,
well how much did this really help
and we'll take a look at that.
So I've got the same application that he has
and I'm going to go up to my run menu and instead
of using his really cool sort test, I'm
going to use object allocations plus sampler.
It's one of my favorite templates and it
lets me set my own settings and save them
for next time I want to use this template
on this problem or other problems.
So I select the template and Xray starts
up and in the background you can see
that ObjectAlloc is graphing the number of graphic
bytes in my target application and so if I go ahead
and press the UID sort button, whoa, look at that spike.
That's probably bad.
So we need to look into that and I think I've got
enough data, but one thing to point out here is
that while Steve was using 100,000
records, I'm only using 10,000 records.
ObjectAlloc really does record a lot of data
and it does have a little bit of an overhead
because you're recording every single event and so
while I could have done 100,000 records,
it would have taken longer and it
doesn't give me the information I need
because 10,000 records is just sufficient.
So I'll quit my application and looking at the ObjectAlloc
instrument, I can see that the detail view
down here is showing me the summary of all the objects I
created and the categories and so I can take a look here
at the, let's see here, RS records and you can see
that 10,000 were allocated over the course
of the application's lifetime and 10,000 were
still alive at the end of the application when I quit it.
The only thing that's unexpected are these CFNumbers here.
Look at this, only 432 were still
alive at the end of the application's run and I created
over 279,000 or 278,000
of these while doing the sort.
Hmm, that's probably a problem.
The other thing that's interesting to note is
that by using sampler and the graph as well,
you can see that it really did take a lot
of processing power when the memory spiked.
Interesting.
So I think it's probably the CFNumbers that are at fault.
I'm going to select the second view, the
call tree view here to find out what point
in my code is responsible for these allocations.
And so I could just go in from
here, but I'll focus on CFNumbers
since I'm not really interested
in anything else at the time.
So I click the arrow and here we go.
I'll bring in the extended detail view so we can see a stack
view, oops, and there we go and since I like customized,
heaviest stack trays view here, I'm going to go ahead and
pull down on this gear and removed the source location
and removed the library name and I'll go ahead and
invert the stack so it shows as I would more expect.
So anyway, we see here that
4.26 megabytes worth
of CFNumbers were allocated in the program's execution.
So if we follow this down on the right, we see a lot
of these BSD Q sort frames and it looks like it's sort
of branching out through there
because it's a recursive function.
Well we've got data mining so I'm going to go to the left
and select flatten recursion and boom, there we go.
So I'll select frame here and watch that
4.24 megabytes comes all the way
through to our code in RS record UID.
Hmm, that's interesting.
If I click right one frame below that, I can see that they
all come from and it's number, number with unsigned long,
long and it looks like we can see the problem.
It looks like what we're doing is creating an NS number
number every single time our UID method gets called,
which as Steve showed earlier, was
not a good time to calculate the UID
and probably not a good time to
create and NS number either.
So what I'm going to do now is look at
the lifetime of one event or one object
and find out why the spike occurred
instead of sort of a flat up and down.
So I'm going to go to the third view, the list view and
I'm going to go up to the graph and drag my inspection head
and if you can see below, the events are going
by and matching the time of my inspection head.
And so here is a bunch of CF numbers and I'll just select
one of their addresses and boom, right in the middle,
malloc auto release, CF release and free, there's
the allocation life cycle of this object.
So it was malloc and RS record UID,
auto released and RS record UID.
Hmm. Interesting.
So what it looks like we're doing is using the NS
number, number with unsigned long long method.
We're creating an auto released object
every single time and it waits until the end
of the event loop to release all those objects.
Which is why we see the very, very visible spike.
Let's go directly back to the code and fix this if we can.
So I'll double click, pop right back to the code that Steve
saw earlier and I'll replace this method with a method
that caches the NS number and of course, I'll need to
go back to the header file, add an instance variable
for that and I should probably go up to the dealloc
method and add a release just so I'm a good citizen.
So I'll go ahead and add that, build my entire, build
my application and go back to my run menu and hit go.
All right, so it's starts up the application again just like
last time, but to have more of a side by side comparison,
I'm going to go ahead and select the
show all run option right now.
So if I hit the I and hit show all runs, you
can see that it's comparing them side by side
and showing the memory usage of my application.
So if I hit UID sort now, wow,
it's done and no memory spike.
Excellent.
That's exactly what we wanted to fix.
So all right, just to verify that our objects
were created in a more reasonable fashion,
I'll go back to the summary view and remove
the extended detail view so you can see this,
but there are only 10,964
CF numbers created during the run.
Excellent.
All right and just for the last comparison,
I'm going to go back to the run menu from Xcode
and just run the application separately so
that we can see what a performance impact
of doing a memory analysis on this application was.
So I'll set it back to 100,000 records,
string sort it, 0.7 seconds.
UID sort it, 0.48.
There we go.
We got our win.
So back to slides.
( applause )
So what did we just see here?
Well we started our application from Xcode by using the
run with performance tool and selected my custom template
that I can use on multiple different
documents, or multiple different applications.
From there we took it to ObjectAlloc inside Xray and looked
for the summary view to hunt for the overall problem.
To find out where our memory usage was going wrong.
Then went to the call tree view to find out the culprit,
to find out what part of my code was responsible for this
and then because we were interested in why the spike
occurred and the life cycle of one of these objects,
went to the object list and really got the
details and got the exact lifetime of our object.
Finally we went back to our code, found the offending
line and made a fix that cached the UID so that only one
of them would be created, not, per object, not 27
and then we 'went back to Xray and verified
that the fix did in fact solve our problem.
So what did we learn?
Well memory analysis is critical to performance.
Just by simply caching that one instance variable,
we gained a 4x improvement in performance.
That's great.
So Xray has really powerful tools to help you
look at the memory usage of your application,
ObjectAlloc, leaks, memory usage, DTrace and more.
You can create you own.
The side by side instrumentation allows you to use
these all at the same time and really correlate the data
and you also get the common Xray benefits of time
scoping, of persistence, document persistence, saving it,
emailing it to one of your friends and more.
So with that I'll return it to Steve
to give us some closing thoughts.
( applause )
>> Hey Daniel, good job.
Thank you.
So that was a great talk on memory analysis in Xray.
So in closing, just to summarize, Xray is a great
way to visually and mine your performance data.
It has a lot of different instruments in it.
You can use it to correlate disparate types, a new
unique power that you haven't had in other tools before.
You can use it to leverage DTrace by building custom
instruments and you can use it to automate you work flow.
Now speaking of DTrace, there is a talk tomorrow on
dedicated entirely to DTrace and I urge you to go to that
and then on Friday there is a talk
about Xray and DTrace combined.
This is sort of our advanced session and we're
going to talk about a lot of cool things in there,
including other ways to invoke Xray on your
targets that are novel and interesting and helpful.
DTrace, building custom instruments in DTrace,
in Xray and doing remote tracing.
Building instruments in Xray, exporting
the script as DScript, running it,
generating output and importing that data back into Xray.
So I urge you to go to that session as well.
It's really going to be exciting.
And finally, you can seek out Matt Formica, our 64-bit
Dev Tools Evangelist for more information or you can go
to the developer website at Apple and you can go to Sun's
website for their DTrace manual and there's also a lot
of good information on the web about DTrace.